Parts of Medicare

Part A (Hospital Insurance)

Part A helps cover inpatient care in hospitals, skilled nursing facility care, hospice care, and home health care.

Part B (Medical Insurance)

Part B helps cover:

Services from doctors and other health care providers

Outpatient care

Home health care

Durable medical equipment (like wheelchairs, walkers, hospital beds, and other equipment)

Many preventive services (like screenings, shots or vaccines, and yearly "Wellness" visits)

Part D (Drug coverage)

Part D helps cover the cost of prescription drugs (including many recommended shots or vaccines). You join a Medicare drug plan in addition toOriginal Medicare, or you get it by joining aMedicare Advantage Planwith drug coverage. Plans that offer Medicare drug coverage are run by private insurance companies that follow rules set by Medicare.

Medicare Supplemental Insurance (Medigap)

Extra insurance you can buy from a private company that helps pay your share of costs in Original Medicare. Policies are standardized, and in most states named by letters, like Plan G or Plan K. The benefits in each lettered plan are the same, no matter which insurance company sells it.

Your Medicare options

When you first sign up for Medicare and during certain times of the year, you can choose which way to get your Medicare coverage. There are 2 main ways:

Original Medicare

Original Medicare includes Part A and Part B.

You can join a separate Medicare drug plan to get Medicare drug coverage (Part D).

You can use any doctor or hospital that takes Medicare, anywhere in the U.S. (Includes all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.)

You can also shop for and buy supplemental coverage that helps pay your out-of-pocket costs (like your 20%coinsurance).

Medicare Advantage (also known as Part C)

Medicare Advantage offers an alternative to Original Medicare for your health and drug needs. You get benefits through a private health plan that Medicare approved. These "bundled" plans include Part A, Part B, and usually Part D.

You may need to use doctors in the plan's network and get approval for certain drugs or services before you get them.

Usually have different out-of-pocket costs than Original Medicare, including a limit on out-of-pocket costs (so you don't need to buy supplemental coverage like Medigap).

Most plans offer extra benefits that Original Medicare doesn't cover- like vision, hearing, dental, and more.

Discover more differences between Original Medicare & Medicare Advantage.

What's the difference between Medicare & Medicaid?

Medicare is federal health insurance for anyone age 65 and older, and some people under 65 with certain disabilities or conditions. Medicaid is a joint federal and state program that provides health coverage for certain low-income people, families and children, pregnant women, the elderly, and people with disabilities. In some states, Medicaid also helps cover medical costs for other adults. Medicaid offers benefits, like nursing facility services, home health services, and assistance paying for Medicare premiums and other costs.

If you qualify, you can have both Medicare and Medicaid.Learn more about Medicaid.

What do you want to do next?

Get Medicare costs

Find basic costs for coverage

Check when & how to sign up

Get answers for your situation

Learn how Medicare works

Find steps to set up coverage
